# Merlin vs Alfonso
## js13kgames entry

Alfonso X was King of Castile during the 13th century. Also known as Alfonso the wise, he encouraged learning and had a particular interest in a game called "Ajedrez", which was a medieval precursor to chess.

In this game you play as Merlin, the fictional wizard who's popularity peaked while Alfonso X reigned. You are invited to Alfonso's castle to learn about the game of "Ajedrez".

As you are a wizard, you have the ability to manipulate objects using telekinesis. Anything that is gold or yellow colored can be moved by clicking on the object and dragging in a direction it is free to move in. Additionally, Merlin can be controlled by clicking on land he can reach, and he will walk the fastest path.

Alfonso X commissioned the "Libro de los juegos", which included detailed instructions on many games, including "Ajedrez". The rules for the enemies movements are taken from this text (the peon moves slightly differently than described since there is no "side" to the board).

The music was created using the brilliant [ZzFXM](https://github.com/keithclark/ZzFXM), which uses the [MIT License](https://github.com/keithclark/ZzFXM/blob/master/LICENSE), which is based on KilledByAPixel's [ZzFX](https://github.com/KilledByAPixel/ZzFX), which also uses the [MIT license](https://github.com/KilledByAPixel/ZzFX/blob/master/LICENSE). These licenses are included below:

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Keith Clark

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2019 Frank Force

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
